# EnRoute
An app with interactive map of the train route and audio guides about POIs brought to passengers' devices by geofencing

An infotainment platform available to passengers from their own devices (BYOD). Passengers can enjoy an interactive travel guide – a map of the train route with a notification of the POI (Point of Interest) – in the language of their choice. A multi-language audio travel guide is played through passengers' own headphones, for them to have the chance to admire the landscape while gathering all desired information, without being interrupted. With our app TRAINOSE is able to eliminate all printed material, and save valuable time and costs of printing and supplying marketing material to each car of the vehicles. Passengers of TRAINOSE routes also gather history facts and tips on various activities to perform in each station, an overview of their trip and a Real Time Information (RTI) with estimated time of arrival, actual information regarding stops, delays and onboard safety protocols (of particular importance during a pandemic), capable to be dynamically updated.

Case study - Audio guide for the rack railway Odontotos Diakopto-Kalvrita

Diakopto Station [38°11'31"N   22°11'50"E]

Welcome to the rack railway from Diakofto to Kalavryta, “odontotos” in Greek, which is one of the few rack trains in the world and a unique attraction for Greece: it was so named in Greek after the mechanism that such trains use in order to climb safely on steep slopes. For the longest part of the journey the train moves on conventional rails, yet, when the degree of slope exceeds 10%, it moves on the rack rails. It covers the 22 km journey at a speed of 30 to 40 km/h on conventional rail and 6 to 15 km/h on rack rails. The rack railway connects Diakofto with Kalavryta, crossing one of the most beautiful sceneries in Greece. Departing from the shores of the Corinthian Gulf, it crosses the Vouraikos Gorge, which forms small and larger waterfalls. Long, long before the rack railway was built, Hercules – a guy with a bit of a reputation for brute strength – had arranged a seashore rendezvous with the woman he loved, Voura. Not prepared to let the few mountains in his way make the going arduous, or downright impossible, he used his legendary strength to force a passageway through to the ocean and his girl – and the Vouraikos Gorge was born. Of course in reality, it's the power of nature, not Hercules, that has created this wild, dramatic and incredibly beautiful valley. The rack railway was built in 1895, at the time of Prime Minister Charilaos Trikoupis, and was one of the most ambitious projects of its time. It is one of the narrowest railways in the world, with a width of only 75 centimeters, in order to enable the use of smaller and more compact railway line in Greece. A true achievement for its time, it is considered a construction feat even by contemporary standards, given the extremely steep slopes and the altitude of the route. The relevant study was conducted by French engineers, while the contract for building the rack railway network and for operating it for 92 years was signed between the Greek State and the SPAP Company (Piraeus, Athens and Peloponnese Railways). The train is so well integrated into the landscape that it seems to have been there forever. Its craftsmanship with wood and stone makes it look as if made by nature.


Niamata Station (Microchelidou Station) [38°9'17"N   22°10'34"E]
The train first stop is at Niamata Station which is only about 5 kilometers away from Diakopto but with an elevation of 124m from the sea level. There used to be an old agricultural settlement in Niamata but today the area around the station is not inhabited. One can examine at the beautiful red rock mountain formation overlooking the station. There is also an informative sign about the Chelmos - Vouraikos National Park and paths around the area. The Chelmos-Vouraikos National Park covers a large land area that includes the Vouraikos Gorge and an important part of the Chelmos mountain range and slopes of Chelmos up to the sources of the Aroanios River at Planitero. The national park was founded in 2009 by ministerial decree with the aim to protect, conserve and maintain the nature of the area as a valuable national natural asset.

Iron railroad bridge [38.15102075896636, 22.173116823502884]
We arrive at the first traditional metal bridge for the rack railway shortly after Niamata. There are totally 49 bridges in the network. Among the metallic ones, 25 have a span from 10 to 60.9m and 15 from 3 to 10m. There are also 9 stone arched bridges, the arch has a span from 2 to 6m. The network of Odontotos was characterised as “a remarkable technical project on the whole” and its installations “historical preservable monuments”. 

Dikastiria [38.148088639736756, 22.17083313234489]
Going up the Vouraikos Gorge, we will find the “Courts” (“Dikastiria” in Greek) 500 meters after the Niamata station. This is a cavernous chamber where the stalagmites have formed upright columns that resemble figures lined up as if in court. The impressive formations we see on the rocks that rise up on both sides of us were caused by the erosion of limestone by water rich in carbon dioxide. In the vertical walls of the gorge, there are interesting rare plant communities featuring unique species characteristic of the rocky habitat of the Eastern Mediterranean.The main characteristic of Odontotos are the few straight parts of the line unlike the many curved ones. Next to the racks there are wall supports with a total length of 400m and stone embankment investments with a total length of 500m. There are six tunnels in the network 200m long in total.There are also tunnel constructions open on one side and carved on the rock on the other. There are also tunnels which have been constructed for the protection of the line from landslides. The biggest one is next to dikastiria and its wall which looks to the river has skylights.


Triklia Station [38.1310869333235, 22.166904399069498]
We arrive at Triklia rack railway station where the rack mechanism is activated and the train starts moving slowly. Here if you descent the train you will find natural water springs. Now the most interesting part of the trip begins. Trees hanging down on impossible places from the mountain slopes and the continuously changing view of the river leaves even the stoics amazed.

Portes [38.11079218795966, 22.16119899703217]
Portes, which means The Doors, is the narrowest point on the Vouraikos Gorge route. Here the little train passes through a tunnel which has two large iron doors at its entrances (hence the name). In the past, the doors were used to keep out pedestrians, allowing only the train to pass through. Today the doors have rusted and fallen, but they are still there. The landscape is impressive and simultaneously imposing. A landscape that has been shaped by the erosive power of water. Two tunnels with two metal bridges were built for the rack railway, the old and very narrow one through which the little train used to pass, and the newer one that is used today. Just look around and get amazed.

Kato Zachlorou (Mega Spileo)
Kato Zachlorou is a very lovely village, built inside the Vouraikos Gorge over the river. The village has very good touristic infrastructure, as much in terms of accommodation as well as restaurants and tavernas.  It is highly regarded as a tourist attraction as much for its surroundings as for the rack railway that goes up the gorge from Diakopto up to Kalavrita. Kato Zachlorou is a good starting point to cross Vouraikos Gorge towards Diakopto, walking along the railway track (13km 31/2 hours). Strolling along the lines of the rack railway from the Station of Kato Zachlorou toward Diakopto, after about 100 meters we see a sign on our left that points toward the Vouraikos River. Descending the short path, we reach a beautiful spot next to the river with plenty of room to sit and enjoy the lovely forest. It is also worth walking the old but very well reserved footpath that connects the village with the Mega Spilaio (Large Cave) monastery  for 25-40 minutes. Mega Spilaio is one of the most historic Monasteries in Greece, built in 362AD by the Holy Fathers Simeon and Theodoros, at the place where they were shown (in the same dream) by the First Called Andreas and Luke the Evangelist that they would find the icon of the Virgin Mary. This same holy icon is preserved in the monastery. The monastery buildings build around a cave paraller to the steep rocks privide breathtkaing views of the grove.

Kerpini station
This station serves Kerpini an historic main village of the region of Kalavryta. Kerpini is also home to the historic family of Zaimis. One of the first flags of the Greek National Revolution, was held at this village. In the village and its surrounding, there is a large number of churches and chapels. The typical excursion to make is to visit the seven chapels that are located 'strewn' on the hills around Kerpini.The is also a war Memorial in honor of the 45 patriots from Kerpini who were executed on this spot on the 8th of December, 1943, by the Nazi German occupying forces who then plundered the village. 

Kalavryta station
We arrive at the end of our railroad, the station of Kalavryta. Kalavryta is an historic town of Achaea, built on the slopes of Chelmos on the site of ancient Cynaetha. Beyond its natural beauty, the town of Kalavryta is a historical place, since this is where, in the monastery of Agia Lavra, the 1821 Greek Revolution was initiated. It’s also a land of fairly recent martyrdom, with the memory of the Nazi German Occupation and the holocaust still very much present. It was December 13, 1943 when the German troops executed almost the entire male population and then burned the little town to the ground. This was recorded as one of the major atrocities of World War II. Today, Kalavryta, preserving its historical significance, as well as natural beauty, is a very popular and important tourist destination. The ski center of Kalavryta is known as one of the biggest in Greece and as one of the two in the world that combine ski in the mountains and swimming in the beach of Diakopto, located only 20 kilometers away.Passing Through the Vouraikos Gorge Along the Railway Tracks One of the most beautiful hiking experiences in Kalavryta is the descent of the Vouraikos Gorge along the rails of the rack railway (or cog railway, odontotos in Greek). The total distance from the Kalavryta station to the Diakofto station is 22,346 meters, and (along with stops) it will take from 4 and a half to 6 hours. When you explore Kalavryta, you will realize the reason behind the town’s well chosen name, since “Kala Vryta” literally translates to “Good Waters”. And there is certainly an abundance of that!

